Now will continue building the recipe's app that we started before except now will include state in
our application that we're going to build looks like this.
Now you may think this looks exactly like our old app but there's some significant changes.
First of all we can add new recipes.
So this link up here works.
It pops up a form I can add pizza
and then from my ingredients all make its tomato sauce.
And if I go down I'll get another one.
Let's say mozzarella.
That's good.
Oh and I guess dough.
And then here's my picture.
And then when I say this the form goes away.
And now I also have my mini recipe card down here.
Another thing that you can do in this new app is you can delete recipes.
So now I've deleted that one and it's taken out of my state.
So I work on this and will start just by converting our app that used default props and one that uses
state.
So I copied over our solution for the last recipes app using props and I've got that now in a directory
called recipe state.
And in here I've got my recipe app my main app component and it's got a nav bar and recipe list and
the first thing I'm going to do is add a constructor here and then save my state about my recipes in
this component.
You may be wondering why I chose to put state in this component instead of putting it in the recipe
list because after all we had our default prop's here on the recipe list already.
Well that was a strategic move on my part.
I know that in the next video we're going to want to put our state in here and soon you'll see why.
So let's start with that.
And now I'll just copy over the state from the default prop's.
Now I've got my state here was some some default so that we can see some data when we first start up
that.
I've also taken away the default props from recipe list because we no longer need them.
And one last thing we want to do is pass that state into the recipe list as prop's.
There we go.
Now let's take a look at the app and make sure everything works.
Everything looks good with the update and we aren't getting any errors so looks good so far.
Planning ahead there's one more thing I know will need to change.
So far we've been using corrects the code so far on the recipe list we've been using the index of our
array to keep track of the key but that's worked so far because our array hasn't changed.
But later on we know that we're going to be able to delete and modify that list so the index in the
array will no longer be sufficient.
So what I'd like to do is inside of objects just give every recipe its own ID.
And now that we've done that we want some way to figure out the next unique idea that we should give
out.
Once we create new recipe ideas
so I've created another piece of steak called next recipe ID in the next video we'll use that to track
what the next ideal should be.
One other piece of business is back in the recipe list we need to change this from index to the ID.
So now we should be using the ID from the recipe state rather than from the index.
Let's see if that worked.
So it didn't quite work.
I fixed a small bug off camera.
So in this state I need to call this recipe's because that's what I use down here and that's also what
my Propp is expecting in the recipe list.
So it just makes more sense to call this recipe's.
Now we take a look at our app.
It looks good and we get no errors.
That's it pratting state to our application.
Next up we'll add the form so we can create a new recipe.